# Final Project readme
Samuel Scaglione
CSCI 2270
CU Boulder
Austin Holler
  "The Depths" is a dungeon crawling game where the user will have to find their way through a cave filled with enemies. The rooms in the game will rely on graphs to determine which rooms are adjacent to each room. As the user navigates, they will find health potions and different weapons that will help them in combat with the monsters lurking in this cavern. A very simple map will display every time the user moves, and it will show every room the user has visited along with where they currently are. Users will come across various single cell rooms where there is either a treasure, a monster, or nothing. To navigate, users will have to type "Left" "Right", etc. Users will also be allowed to search the area they are in, potentially allowing them to find hidden potions or weapons. Once a user encounters a monster, a battle will engage, and the monster and user will take turns attacking. The monster and the user will deal damage based on their attack's strength. Monsters will have a base attack strength and user's weapons will have varying base attack strengths. Attacks will deal random damage based on those attack strengths. During battle a user can chose to switch weapons or eat a potion before attacking. If the user dies they lose, otherwise, they continue on. The goal is to find keys to unlock doors that will either unlock a new section of the cavern or finish their escape. In the main menu, users will decide difficulty. There are three difficulties, easy, medium, and hard. 

Project summary:

for every level, a .txt file describing whether or not a monster, potion, weapon, key, or door is within a certain room. Every room is given and ID. Then, an adjacency matrix created based off a design for every level is read from and every room is assigned their corresponding adjacent rooms. Every level of difficulty incorporates a different map so different files are used depending on what difficulty the user decides on. Using the adjacency matrix for each level and the corresponding .txt file, a graph is built that represents the level. Each room has bools for weather or not a weapon, monster, key, door, or potion is in the room. If a user enters a room with a monster in it, the user enters battle with that monster. The user and the monster take turns doing random damage to eachother based on their weapons or attack strength until one of them dies. If the user dies, it's game over, otherwise, the user continues. Users can find different weapons and potions strewn about the cave as well as a key that will allow them to beat the level. If a user enters a room with an item in it and searches, a linked list inventory is created to store these weapons, potions, and keys. The user can use health potions, which finds the first health potion in their inventory and allows the user to gain health and deletes the potion from the linked list inventory. The user can also change their weapons which asks the user for the weapon they want to change to then iterates through the linked list inventory to find it. Once found, the user's base damage level is changed. If the user searches and finds a potion, the potion is saved in their linked list inventory. The user can use the potion then at any time and it will be deleted from their inventory while increasing their health. All items and monsters are stored in arrays that have their names, damage values, health replenishing values, monster damage, names, etc. For every item or monster in these arrays, a location is stored. If a player enters a room with a potion/weapon/key in it, if they search the room the item will be added to their inventory based on their location; if the player's location matches an item/monster's in their respective array, that item is added to the linked list inventory, or the player fights the monster. Every item, monster, key, or potion has a name that is displayed when the user searches and finds it. User's must pick up the one key in every level to exit and beat the level. If the user finds the key, they may leave through the one door. Otherwise, they must conitune their search. Different levels are built off of the difficulty chosen and each level is different, though the same monsters, potions, and weapons may be used from level to level. Based on what room's are adjacent to the user at a certain location, the user can go left, right, up, or down, though many rooms only have a few available options. The user moves through the map by moving a pointer from location to location based on whether or not the user wants to move up, left, down, or right. A unique matrix for every level is created that represents the map. If a room is represented as a 0, it is a wall or a user has not visited it yet. If the room is a 1, the user has visited it, but is not in it. If it's a 2, the user is currently in that room. Otherwise, 3's are added at the end of every matrix to signify a new row in the map has been found. The map displays either a [ ],[x], or "   " accordingly. As the user moves through the dungeon, this matrix is updated accordingly. When the user finds the key, the room with the door, and defeats the final enemy in the room of the door, the user wins the level. 

How to run:

Every level .txt file and adjacency matrix .txt file must be in the same folder as DepthsMain.cpp, TheDepths.cpp, and TheDepths.hpp. To run the program, enter the Ubuntu terminal and input the following compiling code:

g++ -g -std=c++11 TheDepths.cpp DepthsMain.cpp -o DepthsMain

Once these three files have been compiled, enter ./DepthsMain in the terminal and in the folder containing all of the program's files to run the program. Once you select your difficulty, the graph representing the dungeon will be built and you can play the game. The .txt files for every level need to be included in the same folder that the game is run from.

Dependancies: 
Classes such as stringstream and ifstream are used to read data from the files in order to create the graphs. ifstream allows a file to be read and opened. Stringstream breaks up a single line from a txt. and allows a user to save data from that line into something like an array. 

